I ordered a Mac Mini. 
The latest M4 Mac Mini seems like a great deal. Amazing performance, and a (relatively) cheap price. 
I've already got a monitor/keyboard/trackpad setup which I use for my main job, and an iPad I use when I travel, so this should fit into my setup quite nicely.
I've gone for a M4, 32GB, 1TB Mac mini. I've opted not to go for the Pro, mainly as I don't feel like i need the extra performance.

## Why a new Mac?
I've been trying to use an iPad as my main machine for some time now. It works well for day-to-day web browsing and email, but i've found it difficult to really do any sort of development with with. I've tried making use of [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces) and running my own virtual machines. These have tended to work well, with the biggest issue being iPad OS. Its mouse and keyboard support make it difficult to be _truely_ productive on it.

I've also wanted to start exploring some software engineering items outside of my regular job, things that may not fit with what I do regularly. Having my own machine I can do that on is a major plus point.

There are also other admin activities I have to take care of, that I think would be better suited to a desktop computer. Using the iPad plugged in with Stage Manager _works_, but isn't often ideal for my workflow.

## What do I want to do?
I've got a bunch of ideas of things I want to explore, so here is a non-exhaustive list. I may not get around to all of these, but I itend to write up  journey.

### Dev tools
- Switching from `pyenv`/`virtualenv` to [`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/).
    - I write a lot of Python code, `uv` seems to a favourite in the community. I've been using pyenv/virtualenv for over 10 years now, so now feels like a good time to start exploring other alteratives
- Shell environment.
    - I've been using `zsh` with [`oh-my-zsh`](https://ohmyz.sh/) for the majority of my career, and have never attempted to look into alternatives. I'm not sure if i'm really making use of the functionality of `oh-my-zsh`
- [Nix/NixOS](https://nixos.org/) for declarative environments 
    - Reproducable environments has always been a positive in my experience.
- Vim/Neovim
    - [I setup a neovim configuration quite some time ago](https://amwam.me/blog/my-vimrc), and haven't changed it since. I used to work on a mix of Python 2 and 3 projects, so had a lot of configuration to deal with that. I suspect that theres probably more modern ways of doing the things I had configured. There was also a lot of plugins I added, which I'm not sure are really needed/used. I'm also not sure on the status of Vim vs Neovim, so worth looking into that too.
- Docker for Mac alternatives
    - Haven't looked at other options for a while, but there are a few out there. I'd like to run some services on the new machine, and using containers feels like the easiest way.

## Other Stuff
- AI
    - Just in general, I want to start experimenting a bit more, having a decenent machine I could run some LLMs locally will be useful
- iOS/iPadOS/MacOS development
    - I used to do a lot of this many years ago, things have changed so much, I'd like to get back into it. I've got a few ideas for apps I'd love to try and build.
- [TailScale](https://tailscale.com/)
    - I already have this setup so that I can connect to my home network and use my AppleTV as an exit node. I'd also like to try and setup VSCode server, so that I could use my iPad on the go, connecting to the mac. Will also want to look at VNC options.
    - Also interested in setting up [PiHole](https://pi-hole.net/) again for DNS blocking, and running that from the Mac.
- Home Automation
    - I used to have a lot of smart switches around, but haven't really got them setup yet (since moving).